[MUSIC]
>> Alexis Abril: So earlier we were
talking about what is delete doing,
deletes removing a key from our object
is it really deleting data from memory,
what's going on with delete?
So let's take a look at one
of our examples from earlier.
We have me name first
is gonna be Justin and
then we have a reference,
name = me.name our little shortcut.
And then we're gonna
call delete me.name and
then name.first is still gonna be Justin.
Really quickly, does anyone,
does that look weird to anyone first?
Got a few nods, yeah, that looks weird,
this isn't right, this guys lying again,
let's type this into a console.
Let's work out in memory
why this is the way it is.
So we're gonna take a little
graphical example here on the side
of what's going on in memory.
Here is our window.
And we're gonna have this structure is
gonna be created from the first object for
me.name first.
We're not gonna talk about
the second one just yet.
So me as a pointer to
a new object in memory.
That object has a pointer called
name which is gonna point to
another object in memory.
Which has a pointer called
first which will lead
us to our primitive
Justin string in memory.
So this is the path we're taking.
We have our scope.
We have a me pointer and two objects
ending at a string at the end of the line.
So far so good?
This is the road we're gonna travel down.
Now name is another pointer,
right off the bat.
Var name is another pointer in memory.
So it's going to start here and
it happens to points to our first object.
This is a little bit easier way to
kind of consume this information.
So when we call delete me.name.
That's the pointer that we're
removing I don't know if you guys can
see that animation.
It's really subtle, [INAUDIBLE] walk.
I'm going to dare walk away from the
podium here without tripping on any wires.
This reference,
this link is all we're removing.
When we called the delete key word
in this line of code right here,
deleting me.name,
this is the pointer we're going to remove.
So when you have name.first,
this path is still intact.
So realize if delete was actually
deleting data from memory.
I would probably expect this entire
object to be removed and be cleaned up.
But that's not actually what's going on.
You're actually just working with
pointers either reallocating
reassigning them or
removing them from memory.
Does that make sense?
That clear things up a little bit?
There's probably gonna be some weirdness
when you're working with the delete key
word, you're not seeing maybe
what's going on behind the scenes.
This is actually one of
the things that's going
on.
>> Student: So basically just expect that
delete is gonna delete
a reference not delete a value.
>> Alexis Abril: Yes, most of what you're
working with in JavaScript
is with pointers.
So that part alone trips a lot
of people up right off the bat.
Cuz the same thing is gonna happen
with when we're talking about me and
name, the same thing is
happening with assignment.
But we're gonna show that here in two
slides, why that first slide was really,
really weird, too.
It's just being able to understand,
remember that things are just
pointing to places in memory.
A lot of times when I'm
dealing with modules and
a large application replication
I haven't worked with or
even something I'm just building for the
first time, I'll draw stuff like this out.
Just for my own sake,
that's what going on.
So it make it really really
easy to understand seemingly
more complex concepts.
>> Student: What would happen if you
deleted me?
>> Alexis Abril: What would happen if we
deleted me in this context?
So me is our pointer to this object.
So if we called delete me,
what do you guys think would happen?
Yeah.
>> Student: The me pointer would go away
and then that object would get
garbage collected because,
there's no references to it.
>> Alexis Abril: The me pointer would go
away, and that object would
get garbage collected okay.
Okay, any other thoughts, concerns.
>> Alexis Abril: No, this part, good.
Was somebody gonna?
>> Student 2: There's still be a reference
to it through name.
>> Alexis Abril: There
would still be a reference.
Okay cuz you're saying even if this is
deleted in memory this would still exist.
That parts true that is a true statement
with the if condition on before that.
There's a little,
>> Student: No, that's not true.
Me would,
me is referencing the name object but
name does not reference the me object.
So the me object if
>> Alexis Abril: It depends.
That second variable, name, does.
>> Student: That
references the name object,
but it doesn't actually
reference the me object.
>> Alexis Abril: Okay, yeah right.
>> Student: [CROSSTALK] And you know but
>> Alexis Abril: I misunderstood.
This will not be removed.
The trick is neither will be removed.
[CROSSTALK] Delete is only
going to actually remove
attribute on an existing
object not the object itself.
And me is pointing to an object itself.
So this is something where
If you really wanted to have
the garbage collector remove it.
You could say me equals,
you know, undefined.
And then the garbage collector be like
this isn't being used anymore if there's
no hooks to it.
If nothing is needing that has as
a reference to that me variable,
then the garbage collector
will just come along but
deleting yourself isn't
something you can do.
I feel like there's one browser way back
in the day that let you do stuff like
that.
>> Student: Right, but
here's the one other thing,
just to be clear.
When you delete me,
it doesn't do anything.
The lead actually turns false.
So, you can't actually delete a variable,
it won't,
remove the variable from the call object.
And, it will not set it to point to no or
undefined or anything like that.
And not only, the interesting thing about
the lead it does return true or false.
But it only returns true
if your syntax is right.
If there's a dot operator, really.
So the interesting thing, if you did
delete me.name here, it would return true.
And if you immediately follow
that with delete me.name,
it would still return true.
So the return doesn't tell you
if it did delete anything.
It's could there have been
something deleted there?
It returns true.
Then if you just delete
me it returns false.
Like I couldn't, this is wrong.
You gave me something wrong.
That's how delete works it's confusing,
I don't know what else to say about that.
>> Alexis Abril: [LAUGH] It's a very
special animal a good rule to
live by with this is if you're
focused on dereferencing
attributes of objects of existing
objects that's really only
what you need to use it for.
So if you wanted to say delete me.name if
you wanted to remove some key from
an existing hash and not the hash itself.
That's really what you use this stuff for.
Does that makes sense?
>> Student 2: So, kind of just to recap if
we do delete me, name.first no longer.
>> Alexis Abril: Name.first
will still exist.
>> Student 2: Okay, okay.
>> Student 3: So, if you do
>> Alexis Abril: That's the really
weird part.
[LAUGH]
>> Student 3: So, after you delete me if
you do me.name you'll get object?
>> Alexis Abril: If for
deleting me, yes, yes.
You'll still get the object.
You'll still get the first object up here,
yeah.
>> [SOUND]
>> Alexis Abril: Bless you, Is that weird?
Who thinks that's weird?
I think that's crazy.
[LAUGH] So this is one of the weird parts
but it's always good to understand because
especially if you're building
a rich JavaScript application.
You're probably going have a need for this
keyword to fill, a need for this keyword.
Be aware of what kind of behaviors that
you're gonna get into especially if you're
wrapping some kind of condition around.
While if it was deleted
do this other thing.
That's not going to respond the way
you think it's going to respond.